

Pacemaker
===============
This is a spotify app almost entirely based on the [Static Playlisting](http://static.echonest.com/playlist-demo/)

I have been trying for a while to bring it to completion. This app would help the user in creating a spotify playlist based on artists, songs, tempo, danceability, energy etc.

I see much use in the tempo filter which i can use to get songs for a particular BPM for running (hence the name pacemaker)

If you don't know about it, songs with BPM that match your paces while running makes you run longer ( and feel better ). [A lifehacker article about it] (http://lifehacker.com/5905666/music-can-boost-your-running-performance-by-15). Believe me! It changes the way your run. Also, you keep a more constant pace throughout the song. 

Heres how i use this app for running. 

1. Think of a few artists i like to listen to while i run.
2. Fire up spotify on my desktop, type in my artists on the pacemaker app. Add the tempo constraint and click "Go".
3. I like to walk(warm up) at a BPM of 110-130. So i create a playlist for that tempo range.
4. My slow running pace is around 140-160 bpm. I create a playlist for that.
5. My fast running pace is around 160-180. I create a playlist for that too.
6. With this app, i have actually created many playlists, based on many artists, for each tempo range.
7. Before a run, i just go through the playlists, and drag a few songs from each, into a new playlist so that i have a single playlist with each tempo
8. And now that i have spotify on my phone, the playlists can be accessed on the phone.
9. I go running :)


Installation
================

Installation steps ( from [Spotify App Tutorial] (https://github.com/spotify/apps-tutorial)  ).

Remember to replace the api_key variable in static_files/app.js to your echonest developer key(if you don't have one, register for one. it is free, and would take just 5 minutes )

 1. Sign up for a [developer account on Spotify](https://developer.spotify.com/technologies/apps/#developer) by logging in and agreeing to the [terms of use](https://developer.spotify.com/technologies/apps/terms-of-use/).
 2. Sign up for a [developer account on Echonest](http://developer.echonest.com/account/register) 
 3. Save the developer api key you get there
 2. Create the Spotify folder if it doesn't exist already: `~/Spotify` (Mac OS X and Linux) or `My Documents\Spotify` (Windows).
 3. Open the Spotify folder.
 4. Run `git clone https://github.com/woodstok/pacemaker`.
 5. Put your api key at [app.js](https://github.com/woodstok/pacemaker/blob/master/static_files/app.js#L21) 
 5. Download [the desktop client of Spotify](http://spotify.com/download).
 6. Open the desktop client and type `spotify:app:pacemaker` in the Search box.
 7. If the app doesn't load, restart Spotify completely and type again `spotify:app:pacemaker` in the Search box.



Also below is the reason why you cannot directly install it via spotify :(. I did try creating a webapp for the same , but i was drowning in a lot of issues and finally decided to stick with a desktop app.

| Closure of Spotify Apps Submissions   |
| ------------------------------------- |
| Spotify closed the submission process for new apps on the 24th of March 2014. You can still develop apps, but your app will not be released through the App Finder and will thus not be accessible to other users. Please read the [announcement](http://devnews.spotify.com/2014/03/24/closure-of-spotify-apps-submissions/) on our Developer News site for more information. |



Usage
=================
Once you are done installing and the app is right in front of you, you can either go the artist way or the song way(not both). Below are basic instructions for choosing an artist playlist. Song playlists are similar.
###Artist
1. Click on the artist button.
2. Type in an artist.
3. Hit return/enter. The echonest API will check if it has an artist based on that name. (it forgives a few spelling mistakes.)
4. Add more artists.
5. You can also click on Constraints button and add a few constraints like tempo, danceability, energy etc.
6. Click the go button.If EchoNest was able to find songs for you it will display them below. 
7. A save playlist input box will appear along with the new songs. It has an autogenerated( poorly generated ) name which uses first 6 characters of each artist or song and the tempo . You can type in your own playlist name if you want.
8. Click save and you can see your playlist in your playlist section in spotify. :)

Note:If you had given very limiting constraints, it is possible that no song show up. Try changing your constraints.

Issues and Feedback
==========
this is still in its early stages, if you find any bugs, file or mail.
feel free to drop in questions and suggestions on woodstok at outlook dot com


